README.md, before:

# MediaPeek

<p align="center">
  <img src="resources/app_icons/MediaPeek-Dark-Default-1024x1024@1x.png" width="200" alt="MediaPeek Icon">
</p>

MediaPeek provides detailed technical metadata for video, audio, image, and subtitle files directly in your browser. It processes URLs intelligently—fetching only the necessary data segments—so you don't need to download the whole file.

![MediaPeek Demo](resources/preview.png)

## Features

### Edge Analysis

Fetches only necessary data segments—no full file downloads required.

### Archive Extraction

Transparently unpacks media from common archive formats:

- **ZIP**: Stored and DEFLATE-compressed archives.
- **TAR**: Standard tar archives (including `@LongLink` extended headers).

The original archive name is displayed alongside the inner filename for context.

### Supported Sources

- **Web Servers**: HTTP/HTTPS URLs. Optimized for byte-range requests.
- **Google Drive**: Public files and folders.

### Secure Sharing

End-to-end encrypted result sharing via PrivateBin.

### Output Formats

Export metadata as Object, JSON, Text, HTML, or XML.

### Security

SSRF protection blocks requests to local and private network resources.

### API Response Contract

`/resource/analyze` now returns a normalized JSON envelope:

- Success:
  - `success: true`
  - `requestId: string`
  - `results: Record<string, string>`
- Error:
  - `success: false`
  - `requestId: string`
  - `error: { code, message, retryable }`

Optional analyzer controls:

- `ANALYZE_API_KEY` (secret)
- `ANALYZE_RATE_LIMIT_PER_MINUTE` (default `30`)
- `ANALYZE_API_BASE_URL` (optional frontend -> analyzer forwarding target)

## Try It

Test with these sample URLs:

### Video Samples

- [Sintel Trailer](https://media.w3.org/2010/05/sintel/trailer.mp4)
- [ForBiggerBlazes Clip](https://commondatastorage.googleapis.com/gtv-videos-bucket/sample/ForBiggerBlazes.mp4)
- [HEVC Videos](https://lf-tk-sg.ibytedtos.com/obj/tcs-client-sg/resources/video_demo_hevc.html)

### Audio Samples

- [MPEG-H Audio](https://mpegh.com/academy/testing-and-qa/)
- [Dolby AC-4 Online Delivery Kit](https://ott.dolby.com/OnDelKits/AC-4/Dolby_AC-4_Online_Delivery_Kit_1.5/help_files/topics/kit_wrapper_MP4_multiplexed_streams.html)
- [PeterPee Atmos](https://www.peterpee.com/demo)

### Community Collections

- [Kodi Samples](https://kodi.wiki/view/Samples)
- [Netflix Open Content](https://opencontent.netflix.com/)
- [Jellyfin Test Videos](https://repo.jellyfin.org/test-videos/)
- [4K-8K Dolby Vision Samples by Salty01](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1yAq-jgsb8pYa92PnGZkxyEV0E3VVkhiC)
- [Surround Sound by Buzz*Buzz_Buzz*](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1JxmeedtAtgmoafXv9rroiDOS2vEX7N4b)
- [Dolby Vision, Atmos, DTS-X Demos](https://1drv.ms/f/c/999a020cf5718098/EobEBJqZ92ZFipImX5WugTUB7xX5r5ko-omYcTJQ9chLPA)

## Known Issues

### Archive Bitrate Accuracy

When analyzing media files contained within archives (such as `.zip` or `.tar`), the reported bitrate may be inaccurate. This limitation occurs because the analysis engine streams the inner file and may estimate bitrate based on incomplete size data.

## License

**MediaPeek** is released under the GNU GPLv3.

### Acknowledgments

- **MediaInfo**: Copyright © 2002–2023 MediaArea.net SARL. Analysis is powered by [mediainfo.js](https://github.com/buzz/mediainfo.js), a WebAssembly port of [MediaInfoLib](https://github.com/MediaArea/MediaInfoLib). ([License](https://mediaarea.net/en/MediaInfo/License))

- **PrivateBin**: Enables secure sharing of results. ([License](https://github.com/PrivateBin/PrivateBin/blob/master/LICENSE.md))

- **Apple Services Badges**: The video format badges (Dolby, Immersive, 3D, HD, 4K, HDR, HDR10+) are sourced from [Apple TV](https://tv.apple.com/), while the audio badges (Lossless, Hi-Res Lossless, Apple Digital Master, Spatial Audio, AAC) are sourced from [Apple Music](https://music.apple.com/). Special thanks to @SuperSaltyGamer for providing the Apple Music SVG badges. These designs were selected for their visual perfection and clarity, which align seamlessly with MediaPeek's aesthetic.

- **Cloudflare Workers**: Hosted on [Cloudflare Workers](https://workers.cloudflare.com/). MediaPeek benefits from their generous free tier.

Commit message:

feat(web): launch new homepage and move analyzer to /app
- add marketing homepage with hero, isolated preview, features, badges, and metadata engine section
- move analyzer UI to /app and keep shared header/footer layout consistency
- refine header behavior (non-sticky on /app, remove mobile app row, updated GitHub link)
- load preview from public demo fixture and improve preview badge set
- fix iframe localhost rendering and options-menu focus/aria-hidden accessibility warning

README.md, after:

# MediaPeek

<p align="center">
  <img src="resources/app_icons/MediaPeek-Dark-Default-1024x1024@1x.png" width="200" alt="MediaPeek Icon">
</p>

MediaPeek provides detailed technical metadata for video, audio, image, and subtitle files directly in your browser. It processes URLs intelligently—fetching only the necessary data segments—so you don't need to download the whole file.

The website root (`/`) is the product homepage, and the live analyzer interface is available at `/app`.

![MediaPeek Demo](resources/preview.png)

## Features

### Edge Analysis

Fetches only necessary data segments—no full file downloads required.

### Archive Extraction

Transparently unpacks media from common archive formats:

- **ZIP**: Stored and DEFLATE-compressed archives.
- **TAR**: Standard tar archives (including `@LongLink` extended headers).

The original archive name is displayed alongside the inner filename for context.

### Supported Sources

- **Web Servers**: HTTP/HTTPS URLs. Optimized for byte-range requests.
- **Google Drive**: Public files and folders.

### Secure Sharing

End-to-end encrypted result sharing via PrivateBin.

### Output Formats

Export metadata as Object, JSON, Text, HTML, or XML.

### Security

SSRF protection blocks requests to local and private network resources.

### API Response Contract

`/resource/analyze` now returns a normalized JSON envelope:

- Success:
  - `success: true`
  - `requestId: string`
  - `results: Record<string, string>`
- Error:
  - `success: false`
  - `requestId: string`
  - `error: { code, message, retryable }`

Optional analyzer controls:

- `ANALYZE_API_KEY` (secret)
- `ANALYZE_RATE_LIMIT_PER_MINUTE` (default `30`)
- `ANALYZE_API_BASE_URL` (optional frontend -> analyzer forwarding target)

## Try It

Test with these sample URLs:

### Video Samples

- [Sintel Trailer](https://media.w3.org/2010/05/sintel/trailer.mp4)
- [ForBiggerBlazes Clip](https://commondatastorage.googleapis.com/gtv-videos-bucket/sample/ForBiggerBlazes.mp4)
- [HEVC Videos](https://lf-tk-sg.ibytedtos.com/obj/tcs-client-sg/resources/video_demo_hevc.html)

### Audio Samples

- [MPEG-H Audio](https://mpegh.com/academy/testing-and-qa/)
- [Dolby AC-4 Online Delivery Kit](https://ott.dolby.com/OnDelKits/AC-4/Dolby_AC-4_Online_Delivery_Kit_1.5/help_files/topics/kit_wrapper_MP4_multiplexed_streams.html)
- [PeterPee Atmos](https://www.peterpee.com/demo)

### Community Collections

- [Kodi Samples](https://kodi.wiki/view/Samples)
- [Netflix Open Content](https://opencontent.netflix.com/)
- [Jellyfin Test Videos](https://repo.jellyfin.org/test-videos/)
- [4K-8K Dolby Vision Samples by Salty01](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1yAq-jgsb8pYa92PnGZkxyEV0E3VVkhiC)
- [Surround Sound by Buzz*Buzz_Buzz*](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1JxmeedtAtgmoafXv9rroiDOS2vEX7N4b)
- [Dolby Vision, Atmos, DTS-X Demos](https://1drv.ms/f/c/999a020cf5718098/EobEBJqZ92ZFipImX5WugTUB7xX5r5ko-omYcTJQ9chLPA)

## Known Issues

### Archive Bitrate Accuracy

When analyzing media files contained within archives (such as `.zip` or `.tar`), the reported bitrate may be inaccurate. This limitation occurs because the analysis engine streams the inner file and may estimate bitrate based on incomplete size data.

## License

**MediaPeek** is released under the GNU GPLv3.

### Acknowledgments

- **MediaInfo**: Copyright © 2002–2023 MediaArea.net SARL. Analysis is powered by [mediainfo.js](https://github.com/buzz/mediainfo.js), a WebAssembly port of [MediaInfoLib](https://github.com/MediaArea/MediaInfoLib). ([License](https://mediaarea.net/en/MediaInfo/License))

- **PrivateBin**: Enables secure sharing of results. ([License](https://github.com/PrivateBin/PrivateBin/blob/master/LICENSE.md))

- **Apple Services Badges**: The video format badges (Dolby, Immersive, 3D, HD, 4K, HDR, HDR10+) are sourced from [Apple TV](https://tv.apple.com/), while the audio badges (Lossless, Hi-Res Lossless, Apple Digital Master, Spatial Audio, AAC) are sourced from [Apple Music](https://music.apple.com/). Special thanks to @SuperSaltyGamer for providing the Apple Music SVG badges. These designs were selected for their visual perfection and clarity, which align seamlessly with MediaPeek's aesthetic.

- **Cloudflare Workers**: Hosted on [Cloudflare Workers](https://workers.cloudflare.com/). MediaPeek benefits from their generous free tier.
